# Adaptive-GA

Exploration of an adaptive genetic algorithm approach to a path finding problem
A genetic algorithm is an alternative search strategy to more traditional search algorithms like brute-force search or A-star search that, although not always offering the optimal solution, will find a very good sub-optimal solution relatively quickly. For the given search problem (or any search problem with a large search space), where the exploration of the search space systematically would result in too many possible exploration paths and where the path to the goal(the sequence of solution that led to the solution to the problem) are irrelevant, genetic algorithms offer an effective alternative. A genetic algorithm stores a finite number of states called the population and applies mutation(changing one or more parts or a state to a random one) and crossover(exchanging one part of one state with the same part of another state). The two most important parameters that determine the efficiency of a genetic algorithm are its crossover probability P(x) and its mutation probability P(m). These two parameters directly influence the search efficiency. With a high mutation rate, exploration is done intensely but while a high mutation rate guarantees a lot of exploration, a high crossover rate converges the population rapidly. A solution to the problem will be found using a standard genetic algorithm. Secondly, the initial algorithm will be expanded to adopt the strategy described in Clustering-Based Adaptive Crossover and Mutation Probabilities for Genetic Algorithms. A k-means algorithm is used to cluster the population according to its properties. The values of P x and P m are then changed to maximise convergence to the global optima.
